GENERAL STUDY INFORMATION, CONSENT FORM, AND PRIVACY NOTICE

1 - Course and duration of the study
The study aims to learn more about different decision-making and ways of thinking and represents a one-time experiment.

2 - Type of data collected
Within the scope of the study, we collect your demographic data (e.g., age, gender), information about your decision-making or other opinionated information that could be linked to your ways of thinking and behavior. We do not intend to collect any special categories of personal data.

If you are recruited via Prolific, the renumeration happens via Prolific. No contact details of you will be collected.

3 - Study incentives
You will receive fair compensation for participating in the study in line with German wage regulation, which is 12 Euros per hour brutto.

4 - Voluntariness
Your participation in this study is voluntary. You are not to expect any disadvantages if you decide not to participate in this study. The same applies if you decide to revoke your consent at a later time. This is possible at any time during your study participation. You do not have to justify a possible revocation of consent or withdrawal from the study. In the case of a revocation, the already collected questionnaire data will be deleted.

5 - Risks
We are not aware of any risks that could result from your participation in the study. This study does not involve any deception. However, if you feel uncomfortable about anything in this study, you can terminate your participation anytime.

6 - Publication of the data
All data will be treated confidentially. The collected data will be anonymized. The anonymized and aggregated data can be shared for research purposes and can be stored in open access repositories. The real names will never be published. Only the member of the research team who is responsible for the payment will have access to the real names. Thus, the real names will only be used for payment and to ensure that you don’t take part in this specific study more than once. 

The results and data of this study may be published in a scientific paper. The publication will exclusively contain data in an anonymous form, without the possibility of attributing individual data to a specific person. 

Should you choose to participate, please indicate your consent. You may withdraw your consent at any time without penalty. 

7 - Information on data protection
We process your personal data in compliance with the applicable data protection regulations, in particular the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Brandenburg Data Protection Act (BbgDSG).

The data controller is:
University of Potsdam
Represented by the president, Prof. Oliver Günther, Ph.D.
Am Neuen Palais 10
14469 Potsdam
Telephone: +49 331 977-0
Telefax: +49 331-97 21 63
www.uni-potsdam.de

Purpose of the processing
Your data will be collected and processed within the research project “Effects of a tidy vs. messy online environment on human behavior and choices,” conducted by researchers from the University of Potsdam. The data is pseudonymized for analysis, i.e., only in connection with an internal number.

Lawfulness of processing
The legal basis for data processing is your consent. The consent is required for the processing of special categories of personal data in accordance with Art. 9 Para. 2 lit. a DSGVO.

Withdrawal of consent
You have the right to withdraw your consent at any time and without reason. The withdrawal of consent does not affect the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal.

Duration of data processing
The list of real names will be removed by the researchers immediately after payment and the reimbursement but no later than 6 months after study completion. The videos will be transcribed and deleted no later than 6 months after study completion. Once this is done, the data will be completely anonymized. From this point on, it is no longer possible to assert your rights, as your individual data record cannot be identified anymore. In line with the German legislation, the payment data (esp., name, account data, purpose and payment amount) of respondents who participated in the survey submitted for reimbursement can be kept on the record for 10 years by the university administration (§ 147 Abs. 1 Nr. 4, Abs. 3 S. 1., Abgabenordnung), precisely by Dezernat 4 (Division 4/Division of Finance and Procurement).

Recipients of your data
Your data will be used by the Chair of Social Media and Society at the University of Potsdam, in particular, by the following researchers: Long Hoang Nguyen (University of Potsdam) and Olga Abramova (University of Potsdam). Furthermore, the payment data (esp., name, account data, purpose and payment amount) of respondents who participated in the survey and were approved for payment will be forwarded to the Dezernat 4 (Division 4/Division of Finance and Procurement) of the University of Potsdam for the purpose of reimbursement. 

Due to the technical implementation of the questionnaire, your data will be processed through Google Servers in an AJAX HTTP-request. Precisely, the data will be transferred from SurveyJS to a Google Sheets document through a custom written Google Apps Script. It is important to note that your data will only be transferred and not be processed by Google.

Your rights
You have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not your personal data is being processed and, if that is the case, access the personal data and additional information (right of access). You also have the right to obtain from the controller without undue delay the rectification of inac-curate personal data. If the legal requirements of Art. 17 or 18 GDPR are met, you are entitled to the erasure of your personal data or to a restriction of the processing. Please note that restricted processing of the data may not be possible in every instance. You have the right to receive your personal data in a structured, standard, and machine-readable format or to request the transfer to another controller (right to data portability, Art. 20 GDPR). Furthermore, you may object to the processing of your personal data under the conditions set forth in Art. 21 GDPR.

To exercise your rights, we kindly request that you contact:
Long Hoang Nguyen
Campus Griebnitzsee
Karl-Marx-Straße 67
14482 Potsdam
or
Dr. Olga Abramova
Campus Griebnitzsee
Karl-Marx-Straße 67
14482 Potsdam

Access to your personal data can be requested from the Chief Information Officer (University of Potsdam, Karl-Liebknecht-Str. 24-25, 14476 Potsdam). The corresponding form can be found on his website: https://www.uni-potsdam.de/de/praesidialbereich/praesident-vizepraesidenten/cio.html.

You can contact the university’s data protection officer if you have questions regarding data protection:
Dr. Marek Kneis
Am Neuen Palais 10
14469 Potsdam
Telefon: +49 331 977-124409
Telefax: +49 331 977-701821
E-Mail: datenschutz@uni-potsdam.de

8 - If you think that the processing of your personal data infringes the GDPR, then you have the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority for data protection.

Please read the information above carefully. Should you proceed, you agree to the following:
- I have read and understood the above-mentioned participation information and the information on data protection.  
- I have been informed about the study and the study procedure. Any questions about the study, have been answered thoroughly and to my satisfaction by Mr. Long Hoang Nguyen and Ms. Olga Abramova. 
- I agree that all personal information of the participants will be removed before the start of the analysis.
- I am of legal age, had sufficient time to make a decision, and am willing to participate in the above-mentioned study. I know that participation in the study is voluntary, and I can terminate my participation at any time without giving reasons. 
- I consent to participation in the study and the associated processing of my personal data.